# Foundry OAuth2 Documentation

> Collated from screenshots for case study reference. Additional screenshots may be appended below.

## Third-party applications

Foundry's platform security controls ensure that integration and interoperability with third-party applications can be centrally managed while respecting established security measures. Third-party application authorization supports the OAuth 2.0 framework.

## Writing OAuth2 clients for Foundry

This documentation is intended for Foundry users or administrators who wish to write OAuth2 clients to connect to Foundry. This page provides a description of the OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework and details about Foundry's implementation of OAuth2.

### OAuth2 overview

The OAuth2 authorization framework enables third-party applications to obtain controlled access to a service. OAuth2 improves on the traditional client-server authorization model by providing a layer that enables clients (like a third-party application) to request access through the use of a specifically-issued access tokens and refresh tokens, rather than a user's credentials or static bearer tokens. OAuth2 manages this access through the use of grants, which are methods of obtaining access tokens.

### Supporting OAuth2 integration

The following sections describe how to support OAuth2 in a third-party application. Throughout the document, **client** refers to the third-party application, **authorization server** refers to Foundry's authorization server, and **user** refers to the end-user of the third-party application. To use OAuth2 with Foundry, you must register your application choose one of the authorization options provided.

## Authorization code grant

The authorization code grant allows the client to act on behalf of existing Foundry users. The application must request the set of Foundry permissions they need access to, then a Foundry user must explicitly grant the client access to those permissions on their account. Foundry allows the client to be restricted to a limited set of resources, or to all the resources a user can access.

The authorization code grant works as follows:

- The client creates a `code_verifier` and `code_challenge`. This is recommended but not required for *confidential clients*, such as server-based applications, that can safely store a client secret. It is **required** for *public clients*, such as native apps, that cannot safely store a client secret.
  - The `code_verifier` is a cryptographically random string that contains A-Z, a-z, 0-9, `-` (hyphen), `.` (period), `_` (underscore), and `~` (tilde), and is 43 to 128 characters long.
  - The `code_challenge` is derived by performing the SHA256 of the `code_verifier` and then converting that to a Base64-URL-encoded value without padding.

- The client application should open a browser and send the user to the **Authorization endpoint** URL with the following parameters added as query parameters:
  - `response_type`: This should be set to `code`.
  - `client_id`: This should be set to the ID generated when the third-party application was registered in Foundry.
  - `redirect_uri`: This tells the authorization server where to redirect the user after the user approves the request. If not specified, it will default to the first redirect URI value in the Third-Party application setting in Foundry.
  - `scope`: This defines the permissions requested. Scopes for public APIs are in our API documentation. Add the `offline_access` scope to get a refresh token. If you want multiple scopes, concatenate the scopes using a space as a delimiter.
  - `state`: This is a random string generated by the application that will be passed back to the application as is. The application should check that the value returned matches the original string to prevent CSRF attacks.
  - `code_challenge`: If the client created a `code_challenge`, it should populate this parameter. The authorization server will internally associate the `code_challenge` parameter with the authorization code it generates.
  - `code_challenge_method`: This should be set to `S256`.

- When the user visits the URL, the authorization server presents the user with a prompt similar to the following and the user then can choose to approves the app's request.

- If the request is successful, the authorization server then redirects the user to the redirect URI that was specified along with the following parameters added as query parameters:
  - `code`: This is the authorization code that the authorization server generates.
  - `state`: This is the same parameter the client passed in the authorization request. The client should check that it matches the original `state` parameter that was sent in the request.

- The client should then exchange the authorization code for an access token by calling the **Token endpoint**. The following parameters should be sent using the `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` format in the request body:
  - `grant_type`: This should be set to `authorization_code`.
  - `code`: The code that was received from the authorization server.
  - `redirect_uri`: The absolute URI that the user agent will be redirected to.
  - `client_id`: This should be set to the ID generated when the third-party application was registered in Foundry.
  - `code_verifier`: If the client generated a `code_verifier`, it should send it in this request. The authorization server will verify that the `code_verifier` matches the `code_challenge` that was sent in the previous request.

- The authorization server then responds with an access token which can then be used by the client to access the requested resources such as REST APIs. The response contains the following parameters:
  - `access_token`: The token that can be used by the client to access the requested resources.
  - `token_type`: The type of the token that was issued.
  - `expires_in`: The lifetime in seconds of the access token.
  - `refresh_token`: This is returned only if the requested scope included `offline_access`. This should be used if the client wants to refresh the access token without the user being present to authorize the request.

## Client credentials grant

The client credentials grant is designed for non-interactive service-user style workflows where actions the client makes are not associated to normal Foundry users. The client does not act on behalf of normal Foundry users.

Instead, this grant type automatically creates a Foundry service user associated with the client that can then be granted permissions to access Foundry resources. The token obtained by this grant can be used to access resources on behalf of the created service user. The username of the service user account is the same as the client ID of the application.

> **Note:** By default, the service account does not have access to any resources. A Foundry administrator must assign the desired roles and permissions to the service user account for the client to perform actions in Foundry.

The client credentials grant works as follows:

1. The client calls the **Token endpoint**. The following parameters should be sent using the `application/x-www-form-urlencoded` format in the request body:
   1. `grant_type`: This should be set to `client_credentials`.
   2. `client_id`: This should be set to the ID generated when the third-party application was registered in Foundry.
   3. `client_secret`: This should be set to the client secret that was generated when the third-party application was registered in Foundry.
2. The authorization server then responds back with the following:
   1. `access_token`: The token that can be used by the client to access the requested resources.
   2. `token_type`: The type of the token that was issued.
   3. `expires_in`: The lifetime in seconds of the access token.
3. The client can then use the access token to access the requested resources.

## Refreshing an access token

Access tokens expire after some time and will need to be obtained again. Any client that needs access to the Foundry API when the user is not present will need to refresh the token.

This can be done by following these steps:

1. The client should follow the steps outlined in **Authorization code grant** and specify `offline_access` as part of the requested `scope` parameter.
2. The client should save the returned `refresh_token` that was returned in the final step of **Authorization code grant**.
3. If the access token expires, the client can then refresh the token by calling the **Token endpoint** endpoint using the following parameters:
   1. `grant_type`: This should be set to `refresh_token`.
   2. `refresh_token`: The refresh token that was obtained previously for the given user.
   3. `client_id`: This should be set to the ID generated when the third-party application was registered in Foundry.
   4. `client_secret`: This should be set to the client secret that was generated when the third-party application was registered in Foundry.
4. The authorization server will then respond with the following:
   1. `access_token`: The token that can be used by the client to access the requested resources.
   2. `token_type`: The type of the token that was issued.
   3. `expires_in`: The lifetime in seconds of the access token.
   4. `refresh_token`: The refresh token that can be used to refresh the access token. Note that Foundry rotates the refresh token each time the previously issued refresh token is used. Make sure you save both the `access_token` and the `refresh_token`.

## Refresh token rotation

Refresh tokens can be used to obtain new access tokens. Foundry reduces the risk associated with refresh tokens by rotating the refresh tokens each time the previously issued refresh token is used. A reuse detection protection mechanism ensures that if a refresh token is reused after one minute of its initial use, all access tokens created from this grant are invalidated and a new authorization flow is required. A one minute interval of reuse is allowed to account for possible transient errors like network failures. Additionally, inactive refresh tokens over 30 days old are automatically invalidated. These safeguards reduce risk from potentially compromised tokens by ensuring there are no long-lived refresh tokens.

## Rotate a client secret

> **Warning:**
> Rotating secrets should only be done if the secret has become compromised or lost. After rotation, every application using the old secret will need to be configured to use another valid secret.

Third party application administrators can rotate application secrets via Control Panel. When a secret is rotated, every client using this secret will cease to work, until the application is updated with another valid secret.

1. From **Control Panel**, navigate to **Third-party applications** page.
2. Click **Actions** on the application you want to modify, then click **Manage application**.
3. Scroll down and click on **Rotate secret**.
4. Review the warning dialog prior to confirming the action.
5. Confirm the action and securely store your new client secret as it will not be viewable again at any other time.

## OAuth2 API reference

The following endpoints can be used to obtain OAuth2 tokens.

### Authorization endpoint

`GET /multipass/api/oauth2/authorize`

The authorization endpoint, used by the client to obtain an authorization code.

#### Query parameters

| Parameter name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `response_type` | String | This must be set to `code`. |
| `client_id` | String | The unique identifier of the client. |
| `redirect_uri` | String | The absolute URI that the user agent will be redirected to. This must match one of the Redirect URIs that was specified in the Control Panel. |
| `scope` | String | The scope of the permissions to be requested. Scopes for public APIs are in our API documentation and should be listed as a space-separated string. |
| `state` | String (optional) | An arbitrary string passed to the server that gets passed back to the client as is. This helps prevent cross-site request forgery. |
| `code_challenge` | String (optional) | The code challenge generated by the client; used with Authorization Code Grant with Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE). |
| `code_challenge_method` | String (optional) | This should be set `S256` if `code_challenge` is used. |

#### Redirect query parameters

If the request is successful, the user's browser is redirected to the redirect URI specified in the Third-Party application settings or in the redirect URI passed in the request. The following query parameters will be present in the redirect request URI:

| Parameter name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `code` | String | The authorization code that was generated. This code will expire after 10 minutes. |
| `state` | String (optional) | If the `state` parameter was present in the authorization request, this will contain that exact value. |

### Token endpoint

`POST /multipass/api/oauth2/token`

The token endpoint is used by the client to obtain an access token by presenting its authorization grant or refresh token.

#### Header parameters

| Parameter name | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `Content-Type` | Must be `application/x-www-form-urlencoded`. |

#### Request body parameters

| Parameter name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `grant_type` | String | Value must be `authorization_code`, `refresh_token`, or `client_credentials`. |
| `code` | String (optional) | The authorization code received from the authorization endpoint. This is required if the grant type is `authorization_code`. |
| `refresh_token` | String (optional) | This is required when `grant_type` is `refresh_token`. The value should be the `refresh_token` that was obtained in the original request when the authorization code was obtained. |
| `redirect_uri` | String (optional/required) | The absolute URI that the user agent will be redirected to. This is required if a redirect URI was specified in the Authorization Request. |
| `scope` | String (optional) | The scope of the permissions to be requested. Scopes for public APIs are in the API documentation and should be listed as a space-separated string. |
| `client_id` | String | The unique identifier of the client. |
| `client_secret` | String (optional) | The application's client secret that was issued during application registration. This is required when `grant_type` is `client_credentials`. |
| `code_verifier` | String (optional) | The code verifier used for the PKCE request that the application generated before the authorization request. |

#### Response body

The response JSON has the following fields.

| Field name | Type | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `access_token` | String | The credentials used to access resources. |
| `token_type` | String | The type of the token issued. |
| `expires_in` | String | The lifetime in seconds of the access token. |
| `refresh_token` | String (optional) | The credentials used to obtain new access tokens. Foundry rotates `refresh_token` every time a `refresh_token` grant is called. Make sure you save both the `access_token` and the `refresh_token`. |

---

# Requests Library

Requests is an elegant and simple HTTP library for Python.

## Make a Request

Making a request with Requests is very simple. Begin by importing the Requests module:

```python
>>> import requests
```

Now, let's try to get a webpage. For this example, let's get GitHub's public timeline:

```python
>>> r = requests.get('https://api.github.com/events')
```

Now, we have a `Response` object called `r`. We can get all the information we need from this object.

Requests' simple API means that all forms of HTTP request are as obvious. For example, this is how you make an HTTP POST request:

```python
>>> r = requests.post('https://httpbin.org/post', data={'key': 'value'})
```

Nice, right? What about the other HTTP request types: PUT, DELETE, HEAD and OPTIONS? These are all just as simple:

```python
>>> r = requests.put('https://httpbin.org/put', data={'key': 'value'})
>>> r = requests.delete('https://httpbin.org/delete')
>>> r = requests.head('https://httpbin.org/get')
>>> r = requests.options('https://httpbin.org/get')
```

That's all well and good, but it's also only the start of what Requests can do.

## Passing Parameters In URLs

You often want to send some sort of data in the URL's query string. If you were constructing the URL by hand, this data would be given as key/value pairs in the URL after a question mark, e.g. `httpbin.org/get?key=val`. Requests allows you to provide these arguments as a dictionary of strings, using the `params` keyword argument. As an example, if you wanted to pass `key1=value1` and `key2=value2` to `httpbin.org/get`, you would use the following code:

```python
>>> payload = {'key1': 'value1', 'key2': 'value2'}
>>> r = requests.get('https://httpbin.org/get', params=payload)
```

You can see that the URL has been correctly encoded by printing the URL:

```python
>>> print(r.url)
https://httpbin.org/get?key2=value2&key1=value1
```

Note that any dictionary key whose value is `None` will not be added to the URL's query string.

You can also pass a list of items as a value:

```python
>>> payload = {'key1': 'value1', 'key2': ['value2', 'value3']}
>>> r = requests.get('https://httpbin.org/get', params=payload)
>>> print(r.url)
https://httpbin.org/get?key1=value1&key2=value2&key2=value3
```

## Response Content

We can read the content of the server's response. Consider the GitHub timeline again:

```python
>>> import requests
>>> r = requests.get('https://api.github.com/events')
>>> r.text
'[{"repository":{"open_issues":0,"url":"https://github.com/...
```

Requests will automatically decode content from the server. Most unicode charsets are seamlessly decoded.

When you make a request, Requests makes educated guesses about the encoding of the response based on the HTTP headers. The text encoding guessed by Requests is used when you access `r.text`. You can find out what encoding Requests is using, and change it, using the `r.encoding` property:

```python
>>> r.encoding
'utf-8'
>>> r.encoding = 'ISO-8859-1'
```

If you change the encoding, Requests will use the new value of `r.encoding` whenever you call `r.text`. You might want to do this in any situation where you can apply special logic to work out what the encoding of the content will be. For example, HTML and XML have the ability to specify their encoding in their body. In situations like this, you should use `r.content` to find the encoding, and then set `r.encoding`. This will let you use `r.text` with the correct encoding.

Requests will also use custom encodings in the event that you need them. If you have created your own encoding and registered it with the `codecs` module, you can simply use the codec name as the value of `r.encoding` and Requests will handle the decoding for you.

## Binary Response Content

You can also access the response body as bytes, for non-text requests:

```python
>>> r.content
b'[{"repository":{"open_issues":0,"url":"https://github.com/...
```

The `gzip` and `deflate` transfer-encodings are automatically decoded for you.

The `br` transfer-encoding is automatically decoded for you if a Brotli library like brotli or brotlicffi is installed.

For example, to create an image from binary data returned by a request, you can use the following code:

```python
>>> from PIL import Image
>>> from io import BytesIO
>>> i = Image.open(BytesIO(r.content))
```

## JSON Response Content

There's also a builtin JSON decoder, in case you're dealing with JSON data:

```python
>>> import requests
>>> r = requests.get('https://api.github.com/events')
>>> r.json()
[{'repository': {'open_issues': 0, 'url': 'https://github.com/...
```

In case the JSON decoding fails, `r.json()` raises an exception. For example, if the response gets a 204 (No Content), or if the response contains invalid JSON, attempting `r.json()` raises `requests.exceptions.JSONDecodeError`. This wrapper exception provides interoperability for multiple exceptions that may be thrown by different python versions and json serialization libraries.

It should be noted that the success of the call to `r.json()` does **not** indicate the success of the response. Some servers may return a JSON object in a failed response (e.g. error details with HTTP 500). Such JSON will be decoded and returned. To check that a request is successful, use `r.raise_for_status()` or check `r.status_code` is what you expect.

## Raw Response Content

In the rare case that you'd like to get the raw socket response from the server, you can access `r.raw`. If you want to do this, make sure you set `stream=True` in your initial request. Once you do, you can do this:

```python
>>> r = requests.get('https://api.github.com/events', stream=True)
>>> r.raw
<urllib3.response.HTTPResponse object at 0x101194810>
>>> r.raw.read(10)
b'\x1f\x8b\x08\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x00\x03'
```

In general, however, you should use a pattern like this to save what is being streamed to a file:

```python
with open(filename, 'wb') as fd:
    for chunk in r.iter_content(chunk_size=128):
        fd.write(chunk)
```

Using `Response.iter_content` will handle a lot of what you would otherwise have to handle when using `Response.raw` directly. When streaming a download, the above is the preferred and recommended way to retrieve the content. Note that `chunk_size` can be freely adjusted to a number that may better fit your use cases.

## More complicated POST requests

Typically, you want to send some form-encoded data — much like an HTML form. To do this, simply pass a dictionary to the `data` argument. Your dictionary of data will automatically be form-encoded when the request is made:

```python
>>> payload = {'key1': 'value1', 'key2': 'value2'}
>>> r = requests.post('https://httpbin.org/post', data=payload)
>>> print(r.text)
{
  ...
  "form": {
    "key2": "value2",
    "key1": "value1"
  },
  ...
}
```

The `data` argument can also have multiple values for each key. This can be done by making `data` either a list of tuples or a dictionary with lists as values. This is particularly useful when the form has multiple elements that use the same key:

```python
>>> payload_tuples = [('key1', 'value1'), ('key1', 'value2')]
>>> r1 = requests.post('https://httpbin.org/post', data=payload_tuples)
>>> payload_dict = {'key1': ['value1', 'value2']}
>>> r2 = requests.post('https://httpbin.org/post', data=payload_dict)
>>> print(r1.text)
{
  ...
  "form": {
    "key1": [
      "value1",
      "value2"
    ]
  },
  ...
}
>>> r1.text == r2.text
True
```

There are times that you may want to send data that is not form-encoded. If you pass in a `string` instead of a `dict`, that data will be posted directly.

For example, the GitHub API v3 accepts JSON-Encoded POST/PATCH data:

```python
>>> import json
>>> url = 'https://api.github.com/some/endpoint'
>>> payload = {'some': 'data'}
>>> r = requests.post(url, data=json.dumps(payload))
```

Please note that the above code will NOT add the `Content-Type` header (so in particular it will NOT set it to `application/json`).

If you need that header set and you don't want to encode the `dict` yourself, you can also pass it directly using the `json` parameter (added in version 2.4.2) and it will be encoded automatically:

```python
>>> url = 'https://api.github.com/some/endpoint'
>>> payload = {'some': 'data'}

>>> r = requests.post(url, json=payload)
```

Note, the `json` parameter is ignored if either `data` or `files` is passed.

## Response Status Codes

We can check the response status code:

```python
>>> r = requests.get('https://httpbin.org/get')
>>> r.status_code
200
```

Requests also comes with a built-in status code lookup object for easy reference:

```python
>>> r.status_code == requests.codes.ok
True
```

If we made a bad request (a 4XX client error or 5XX server error response), we can raise it with `Response.raise_for_status()`:

```python
>>> bad_r = requests.get('https://httpbin.org/status/404')
>>> bad_r.status_code
404
>>> bad_r.raise_for_status()
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "requests/models.py", line 832, in raise_for_status
    raise http_error
requests.exceptions.HTTPError: 404 Client Error
```

But, since our `status_code` for `r` was 200, when we call `raise_for_status()` we get:

*(continues in next screenshot)*
